A network is a system of interconnected things that can communicate or interact with each other.

A system in which a number of resources are connected and interact to each other is called as network
They can be connected by wire, wireless, etc

A computer network is a group of computers and devices (like printers, servers, routers, phones, etc.) connected together to share resources, exchange data, and communicate.

Types:
LAN (Local Area Network): Covers a small area like a home, school, or office.

WAN (Wide Area Network): Covers large areas (like the internet).

Wi-Fi Network: A wireless network that connects devices using radio signals.

VPN (Virtual Private Network): A secure, encrypted connection over a public network

Properties:
Communication



Internet->
It is a network of networks. It is a global system.

Inter->Interconnected
Net-> Network


Ip Address->  Unique Indentifaction of a machine
If two systems want to communicate, then they must know their IP address



Browser->
It is a tool which is used to access resources from internet

Broswer engine->
It is used to request from server 


Clients->
It is the one which is requesting something from a server(another computer)


Server->
It is the one which sends the answer to the request of the client
Types-> 
Database
File based
Application
Email server and many more



DNS server->
It converts the URL into the IP address which is known as domain name resolution


Domain Name Resolution is the process of converting a domain name (like example.com) into an IP address (like 93.184.216.34) that computers use to identify each other on a network

A DNS server (Domain Name System server) is like the phonebook of the internet. It helps computers find the IP address for a website name (domain) so they can connect to it.

When you type something like www.google.com into your browser:

Your computer sends a request to a DNS server.

The DNS server checks if it knows the IP address for that domain.

If it knows, it sends back the IP (like 142.250.190.4), and your browser connects to that address.

If it doesn’t know, it asks other DNS servers until it finds the answer.





